its full name is carcaclus megalodon
but some shark enthusiasts just call it
the meg
whatever name it goes by this giant was
the biggest baddie of the ocean when it
terrorized the waters two million years
ago
if you're afraid of modern sharks get
ready for these facts
because this prehistoric predator puts
them all to shame
we'll start with the obvious here this
shark species was the largest this
planet has ever seen
different estimates put its size
anywhere from 45
up to 60 feet in length to put that into
perspective
60 feet would make the megalodon about
four times the size of the average great
white shark
the meg weighed up to 100 tons again
for comparison the t-rex weighed a mere
9 tons
the biggest shark living today is the
whale shark which can grow up to 40 feet
long
so there's really no other shark that
can compare to the megalodon's massive
size
there's currently a very limited amount
of megalodon fossils
shark skeletons are made of cartilage
which doesn't fossilize very well
so that means almost all that remains of
the mighty meg are its teeth
which have been found on every continent
except for asia
and antarctica given that its fossilized
teeth are everywhere
scientists have gathered that the
megalodon traveled throughout the world
using these fossils as a guide
scientists have tried to put a picture
together of what this giant predator
actually looked like and how it lived
many of the fossils have been found on
shark tooth hill near bakersfield
california
this is a popular site where people can
dig for teeth while wearing protective
gloves
although some shark teeth have been
buried for ages they can still
be sharp enough to cut through the skin
speaking of teeth
the name itself says it all megalodon
means
big tooth most of its teeth were about
four to five inches long
but the largest tooth ever found was
7.48 inches
and it was discovered in peru with a
rare size like that
these fossils can be very valuable a
7-inch high-quality megalodon tooth can
be sold for up to 50
000 but if you have a small tooth in
your collection
don't expect to get a large amount of
cash for it small
megalodon teeth tend to be valued quite
low
giant clams are the largest mollusks in
the world
they can grow around four feet in length
and weigh more than 440 pounds
so if you're planning on trying to pick
one up you might want to train first by
lifting two baby elephants at once each
and every one of these clams has its own
unique coloration
which makes them one of the most
visually stunning creatures in the ocean
it usually keeps to itself and lives off
sugars and protein produced by algae
and if you find house hunting a
stressful experience you might have some
sympathy for the giant clam
it lives in the warm waters of the south
pacific and indian oceans
and before settling down it needs to
find the
perfect location it searches far and
wide for the ideal spot of sand or coral
reef to call home
it's got to be good because this
creature will remain in the same place
for the rest of its life
when left undisturbed they can live for
over 100 years
now this crab looks like something you'd
see in a video game or some sci-fi alien
movie
my goodness just look at it the giant
spider crab lives in the waters near
japan
their legs reach about 11 and a half
feet from claw to claw
and the body can be around 14.5 inches
in diameter
it spends most of its time looking for
animal remains mollusks and
shellfish to feed on but don't be fooled
thinking this crab looks a little twiggy
and weak
its massive size alone keeps most
predators away
when one does decide to attack it though
the crabs hard exoskeleton provides
it with excellent protection the design
on its back also helps it blend into the
environment
and disappear if it needs to that's why
the giant spider crab can live
up to an impressive 100 years when left
alone
unfortunately that's not the case since
the species is targeted by the fishing
industry
and sold as a delicacy in japan
the great white gets its name from its
distinct white belly under its grey body
as for the great part that's simply
because some of them can grow over 20
feet long
as for your average great white shark
it's usually about 15 feet in length
making it the largest predatory fish in
the world as
predators they love to feed on sea lions
seals and small whales
thanks to its strong tail and torpedo
shaped body
the great white can swim at speeds up to
15 miles per hour when in pursuit of its
prey
yeah that means we humans have no chance
of escape if we find ourselves in its
crosshairs
actually great whites are responsible
for up to half of the yearly shark
attack incidents reported worldwide
they have a highly evolved sense of
smell and can sniff
one tiny drop of blood in 25 gallons of
water
so if you're bleeding even the tiniest
bit it's probably a good idea to avoid
going into the ocean
[Music]
pacific sleeper shark 23.6 feet long
pacific sleeper sharks look unlike any
other shark
their body is shaped like a torpedo they
have a wide blunt head
and their mouth is pretty small the
biggest representatives of this species
can grow as long as 23 feet
one more thing that makes pacific
sleepers stand apart is their color
it's not that silver and white shade
you'd expect from a proper shark
dark gray or even black help specific
sharks blend in with the sunless depths
in which they live
in addition pacific sleepers have tiny
eyes which are most often colonized by
parasites
these nightmarish minuscule creatures
occupy the outer layer of the shark's
eye and munch on the tissue
making the sharks almost blind luckily
they have a perfect sense of smell to
help them not to starve
it's probably obvious that pacific
sharks live in the pacific ocean
but while researchers used to think that
this species lived only in the north
some of these gigantic predators have
been spotted near mexico
and even taiwan tiger shark
24 feet long the tiger shark is one of
the largest shark species in the world
their average length can reach 16 feet
but the largest specimen
24 feet they can weigh 800 to 1500
pounds
which is heavier than the average horse
why exactly are they called tiger sharks
it's because when a baby shark is born
it's covered with dark stripes
resembling those of a tiger
unfortunately this pretty pattern fades
when a shark becomes older
just like their namesakes tiger sharks
are excellent hunters
besides using their perfect eyesight and
developed sense of smell
these sharks have one more advantage
near their snouts are special
pores filled with a substance that
resembles jelly this substance can sense
electric fields
all living beings give off some kind of
electric field
thus a tiger shark can always find its
prey
the most unique thing about a tiger
shark is its teeth
they are not just super sharp they also
have saw-like edges
these teeth are so strong that they can
easily bite through a clam or a sea
turtle
uh-oh one more unwanted image to make
our nightmares
more exciting basking shark 39 feet long
the basking shark is the second largest
shark alive today
surprisingly you don't have to scatter
away as soon as you see this bus sized
giant
basking sharks are gentle creatures
whose diet consists of fish eggs
plankton and other tiny organisms
basking sharps feed by filtering water
that's why their mouths are simply
colossal adult sharks have three foot
wide moths
in only one hour a shark can filter more
than 1800 tons of water through its
gills
why basking sharks this name appeared
thanks to the habit these peaceful
leviathans
have of lounging near the surface of the
water and seemingly basking in sunlight
in fact soaking up some sun isn't their
main goal
the higher the latitudes are the more
plankton congregates there
catch a lot the most massive toothed
whale
has the biggest brain on earth theirs
weighs an average of 15 pounds
five times that of an adult human these
massive marine mammals feed on giant
squid
bacillosaurus when its fossils were
first discovered
it was mistaken for a marine reptile and
given a name that means
king lizard but it's really a type of
ancient whale that had
small hind limbs say whale
the third largest whale species and one
of the fastest in the world
can reach speeds up to 30 miles per hour
that's rare for creatures of this size
shastasaurus the largest marine reptile
to ever live
would take up three quarters of a
basketball court it had no teeth
so it probably ate by lunging at schools
of fish with its mouth wide open
something called suction feeding blue
whale
the most massive creature to ever live
on earth is so big
that its heart alone is the size of a
golf cart and its vessels are as big as
buckets
their songs can be heard from hundreds
of miles away
but we still can't make out the lyrics
lion's mane jellyfish
this is the largest jellyfish in the
world imagine a tower bell with
tentacles
almost half as long as a football field
a jellyfish of this size can entangle
you with its tentacles
but they're not at the top of the marine
food chain they feed hungry sea turtles
and anemones
also pronounced anemones blue bottle
jellyfish
don't let the name fool you this strange
creature is actually
something called a siphonophore an
animal
made up of a colony of organisms it or
they is the longest living being on this
planet
the tentacles which are a separate
organism from the float on top
is almost the length of the tower of
pisa and
they're venomous of course they are why
should we catch a break now
it's true that sharks have a very
developed sense of smell that's hundreds
of times stronger than yours
just like humans they have nostrils
which are situated beneath their snouts
but their nostrils are designed
specifically for smelling
rather than breathing so it's probably
no wonder that sharks can detect tiny
amounts of different substances
in the water but even though some sharks
can decipher smells better than others
no shark will be able to smell your
blood in the water from farther than a
thousand feet away
now let's imagine that you cut your foot
on a sharp stone while swimming in the
ocean
first the smell of your blood would have
to travel the distance to the shark's
nostrils
and how fast it goes will depend on the
water currents
the more active they are the faster the
smell will reach the predator
then the shark would have to decipher
the smell and find it alluring enough to
react
and finally it would need some time to
reach you
so you can relax you'll have enough time
to get back to the safety of the beach
and get a band-aid for that cut and
maybe a pina colada
by the way few people are aware that
sharks aren't that interested in hunting
humans
most of them are very particular about
their diet
for example the lemon shark which can
smell a teeny drop of blood in the water
from quite a distance
doesn't have people on its menu
whatsoever mollusks and bony fish
gladly an occasional seabird or a
smaller shark
why not a human view no thanks
by the way have you ever seen a shark in
the wild or in an aquarium
if so write about your experience in the
comments below
anyway that's only one of the many myths
that surround the deadly predator
let's debunk or confirm several more
there's a stereotype that sharks
purposefully hunt humans
but most shark attacks happen because
these predators mistake swimmers for
their usual prey
like seals or sea lions the other reason
why a shark might attack is its curious
nature
this predator tends to bite things to
figure out if they'll make a suitable
meal
just like humans do at a buffet there's
an opinion that once a shark stops
swimming
it's life will be over however this idea
is
only partially true first of all it's
important to understand how
sharks breathe in fact they can do it in
two ways
buckle pumping and ram ventilation while
using the first method
sharks pull the water into their mouth
with the help of their cheek muscles
and then expel it through their gills
and this method allows predators to lie
on the sea floor without movement
but if the sharks use ram ventilation
they have to keep moving so that the
water moves over their gills
that's why most people believe that
without constant swimming
sharks won't get the oxygen necessary
for life but the catch is that only 20
or so shark species out of more than 400
use ram ventilation alone and it's
actually true that a few shark species
won't be able to breathe if something
prevents them from moving
but the rest of the predators use either
both breathing methods
or the buccal pumping method and can
easily rest on the seafloor
this beautiful location is situated in
florida
it would be a perfect place for both
beachgoers and surfers but for
hundreds of hunting sharks the water
close to the beach
teems with fish and that's what attracts
sharks to this
place new smyrna beach has been called
the shark capital of the world
by the international shark attack file
this is one list that you don't want to
be on
in 2008 almost 40 percent of all shark
attacks on the planet
happened in this region so if you're a
thrill seeker who dares to enter the
water
there will be at least one shark at a
distance of 10
feet from you that's what scientists who
have been monitoring the beach say
the worst thing about this situation is
that the sharks living in the waters
along new smyrna beach
are bull sharks they are notorious for
their aggressive behavior
so think twice before you risk a swim
[Music]
because of excessive hunting there are
fewer sharks around the world
people hunt them to get ingredients for
things like shark fin
soup or shark cartilage pills without
realizing that not enough
sharks means not enough oxygen for us
all to breathe
what's the connection sharks feed on
smaller fish
and smaller fish feed on photoplankton
tiny organisms that live in the seabed
photoplankton consumes carbon dioxide
releasing oxygen
without sharks there'd be too many fish
eating the plankton
it all boils down to one thing a lack of
oxygen
scientists are continually studying
these fascinating creatures leading to
medical breakthroughs
they're especially interested in shark
dna and the possibility that it holds a
cure for tumors
since their genes in some way protect
sharks against them
what's more researchers found a special
compound
called squalaming in dogfish sharks
tissue
that can fight various chronic
infections in humans
likewise shark's skin has unique
antibacterial properties
which inspired scientists to invent a
special surface coating called
charcot chocolate mimics the diamond
pattern of shark skin
and is used in hospitals to reduce the
risk of infection
great white sharks can move at a speed
of up to 25 miles per hour
the secret is in their denticles small
flat v-shaped scales
these scales significantly lessen drag
force and turbulence
olympic swimsuit designers did their
best to duplicate the shark's tentacles
creating a fabric that makes swimmers
sleeker and faster in the water
the shark's fin also became a huge
inspiration for inventing new technology
for clean energy
one australian company made a device
that captures
tidal energy from the ocean and converts
it into electric power with minimal
environmental impact
a 2018 harvard university study suggests
that these unique dentals on shark's
skin
can also help to create more efficient
planes and cars
the team of engineers found out that
they increase lift
lift is the force that pulls a plane up
when the pressure of the air on top of
the wing
is less than the pressure of the air
under the bottom of the wing
so by incorporating 3d printed images of
the denticles on the wings
engineers hope to make them more
aerodynamic they can also be used for
vortex
generators a small vein attached to the
top of the rear windshield of a car
which increases the downforce of a
vehicle